Okay, so what we're gonna
do right now is some math.
Yeah, we love math, everybody loves math.
[LAUGH] What we're gonna do
is just try out some of these
arithmetic operators to
compute a few things.
The total number of
siblings of your parents,
however, many parents you may have,
how many siblings do they have in total?
This is a question that only you and
JavaScript can answer.
How about the average number of
hours that you slept this week?
So let's say, this week is the last
seven days, so you can guess to me.
I'm not gonna like no [LAUGH], and
then another question is how would you
calculate assuming the average number
of hours that you slept this week?
How would you estimate the number
of dogs you'd pet in a week if you
could pet 1 dog per hour
during your waking hours?
So we're just gonna try out some of
our arithmetic operators in order to
compute these very important
facts about our lives, okay?
Let's take a moment, try it out, and
then we'll talk about it together.
Okey-doke, we're back and we've done
some math, so let's talk about it.
All right, the total number
of siblings of your parents.
Now, obviously, we're all gonna
have different answers to this,
but you probably used which
operator in computing this answer?
>> Plus sign.
>> Plus, yes, plus version, so here, for
example, for me, I have two parents.
Well, my mom had one brother and
my dad had two siblings.
So together, they have three siblings,
so I have three aunts and uncles.
Let's say, and y'all probably had
different things, maybe you have, I don't
know, other folks in your family, but
the plus operator is what we needed here.
Okay, how about the average number
of hours you slept this week?
Now, there could be a few different
operators we might need to use for this.
But when we talk about averages,
we're usually gonna use at some point,
a certain operator to find out the average
over a certain amount of time.
So for example,
if there's 7 days per week,
I'm gonna take whatever
total hours slept and
probably use which operator to
get the average over 7 days.
>> Division.
>> Division, exactly, so this slash.
Okay, now, this is not a thing, cuz I
don't have a total number of hours slept.
But maybe I have that in parentheses,
the number of hours that I slept each day.
Now, this is obviously not correct,
because I never get eight
hours of sleep a night.
But let's assume that I get
eight hours of sleep a night,
I could do something like 8
+ 8 + 8 + etc., seven times.
Yeah, it's one way I could do it,
or I could maybe do 8 x 7.
Now, this isn't a very
exciting math problem, right,
cuz I'm multiplying by 7 and
then dividing by 7.
We know that this would come out to be 8,
which, again, is a fictional number.
But it is not [LAUGH] the correct
answer for me anyway.
But I hope it's true for
you all, cuz sleep is important.
Point is we might be using addition,
we might be using multiplication.
And then eventually to get an average,
we're usually gonna use some kind
of division, you get the idea.
All right, so how about our dog hours?
If y'all are dog people like me, if not,
maybe you don't wanna pet one dog per hour
maybe you wanna pet zero dogs per hour.
But in this case, let's talk through it,
let's sort of teamwork this.
How can we compute the number of
dogs I'd pet in a week, seven days,
if I pet 1 dog per hour assuming
that I sleep eight hours a night?
So how can we compute this?
So maybe we start by calculating the
number of hours per day that I'm awake.
If I sleep 8 hours a night,
[LAUGH] what operator could I use to
figure out the number of hours I'm
awake if I sleep 8 hours a night,
and there's 24 hours in a day?
Could be like-
>> Minus sign.
>> Sorry?
>> 24-8 would give me, okay, so
I have 16 dog petting hours per day.
And then,
I'm gonna pet how many dogs per hour?
So that's gonna need which operator?
If I have a number of dogs per hour, Like-
>> 1?
>> Times, right, so star for
multiply, times 1 dog per hour.
Maybe I can really up my dog petting
ratio and pet a dog every half an hour,
or depends on the density of
dogs in my neighborhood, etc.
But let's say, times 1, and so
that is going to be then the number
of dogs that I could pet in a day.
And then if I wanna get the number
of dogs I could pet in a week,
I can add, well, sorry,
I can extend my math here with times 7.
And when we say times,
we mean star 7, 112 dogs.
Wow, I actually have no idea if
that's sounds like a lot of dogs.
I would be really happy if I
could pet 112 dogs a week.
[LAUGH] Okay, but the point is,
what we have here is an example of
we need to use those parentheses.
Because otherwise, if I didn't
have these parentheses here,
what would happen?
What would happen first
in JavaScript's brain?
>> 8 times 1.
>> 8 times 1 would happen first, so
I would get a totally different number.
Negative 32 dogs?
Unacceptable, unacceptable,
I'm not gonna give back dog pets, no.
So the point is parentheses,
we need them, they're our friends,
they show up all the time in JavaScript.
Okay, any questions about math?
[LAUGH] Please don't make them hard.
We had a great question actually in the
room which was about some other operators.
So folks might have found out,
I don't know,
maybe I want to exponentially
grow my dog petting abilities.
And I want to raise a number
to a certain exponent or
to a certain power, and
what is the operator for that?
Or maybe I find that there's some
other symbol in my keyboard and
I don't know what it does.
Let's say, for example,
the percent symbol, what does that do?
I don't know, let's find out.
How do we find out?
We go to MDN, and if I type in operator,
I should get to this.
For example, there's this page,
a reference of all the expressions and
operators in JavaScript.
This is a long page, long page, but
if I'm curious about a particular
operation, I can do Ctrl+F or
Cmd+F to find something in
the page like exponent, let's say.
Maybe if I spell it right,
okay, it'll show me, okay,
here's this exponentiation operator.
And that shows me that, it turns
out that if I wanna raise a number
to another number to the power of another
number, I can use double asterisks.
That is a valid operator in JavaScript for
exponentiation.
And likewise, if I want to find out
what is that percentage sign do,
I can control or Cmd+F, search in
the page, look for the percent sign.
I find that it highlights
this remainder operator.
And then this will tell me, okay,
this percent sign, which we sometimes also
call modulo returns the remainder leftover
when you divide one number by another.
So there's a whole bunch
more operators out there,
you can always look them up in MDN.